#summary Annotation Core.

[v2Main << Back to Main]

=== The core of Annotation Ontology ===

Annotation Ontology works around a handful of classes and properties:

 * ao:Annotation: the superclass of every annotation class.
 * ao:annotatesResource: identifies the target of the annotation.
 * [v2AnnotationBody ao:body]: The _ao:body_ property identifies some content that is somehow about the annotated resource. 
 * [v2AnnotationTopic ao:hasTopic]: The _ao:hasTopic_ property refers to a URI that identifies the he subject matter of the targeted resource. 

If we want to be more accurate, we can identify a fragment of the annotated resource through the use of selectors:

 * ao:Selector
 * ao:context
 * ao:onResource

=== Annotation of an entire document ===

=== Annotea and Annotation Ontology ===

The annotation core has been strongly inspired by the model proposed by the [http://www.w3.org/2001/Annotea/ Annotea Project]. In both cases, annotations live outside the annotated resource. The following entities/properties have been extended/reused in AO:

 * [http://www.w3.org/2000/10/annotation-ns#Annotation Annotation (class)]: A super class describing the common features of annotations. In AO we use the class _ao:Annotation_ sub-class of the Annotea Annotation class with AO related constraints.
 * [http://www.w3.org/2000/10/annotation-ns#annotates annotates]: The relation between an annotation resource and the resource to which the annotation applies. In AO we introduced a sub-property, named _ao:annotates_ where the domain is the class _ao:Annotation_.
 * [http://www.w3.org/2000/10/annotation-ns#context context]: Context within the resource named in annotates to which the annotation most directly applies. In AO we introduced a sub-property, named _ao:context_ as well, where the domain and range are restricted to AO classes _ao:Annotation_ and _ao:Selector_. Read more about the [v2Selectors ao:Selector here].
 * [http://www.w3.org/2000/10/annotation-ns#body body]: The content of the annotation. It can be text - including hypertext - or a resource identified by a URI - an HTML document. Read more about the [v2AnnotationBody use of ao:body here].

In Annotea, annotations are typed. It is possible to subclass _Annotation_ into more specific annotation classes with their own In AO we adopt a similar mechanism to cover *highlights, tagging, comments, notes, examples, errata...* see [v2AnnotationTypes AO Annotation Types]