#summary Identifying resource fragments through Selectors

[v2Main << Back to Main]

=== What is a Selector ===
A *Selector* identifies a portion of a resource, and may work differently for different types of documents and content types. Also, for a specific content type, multiple kind of selector can be defined to cover specific needs. The _Selector_ instance for a specific _Annotation_ instance is specified through the property _ao:context_. 

*Every Selector is identified by a URI* and we recommend the use of the same URI for identifying the same document fragment multiple times. As there is not current standard mechanism for defining every possible document fragment through URIs this has to be currently enforced at the application level. That is what we do, for instance, in the application [http://code.google.com/p/domeo/ DOMEO (Document Metadata Organizer)].

=== Classes Of Selectors ===
*Specific _Selectors_ can be defined simply subclassing the _Selector_ class*. Specific selectors can be defined simply subclassing the Selector class. With AO core, we provide a set of _Selectors_ we currently use in our applications. These cover mainly text and image resources. We are collaborating with other groups to define additional _Selectors_ for addressing more use cases. These will be listed on this wiki when they will be verified and implemented in real applications.

=== Create new Selectors === 
However, before doing this, we suggest you to check the list of the already available _Selectors_. There might be already a _Selector_ that can cover your use case as it is, or after a small modification that you can discuss with the current _Selector_ person contact. If what you need is not covered, you can proceed in creating your new _Selector_. It would be great if you could contribute the new _Selector_ back to the community so that we can avoid redundancies and foster integration between applications. You will get credited for it and, if you wish, you can become the person contact for it.